release notes 7.1.6 (#19413)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.1.6.md

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup): release-8.3.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 当某个统计信息完全由 TopN 构成，且对应表的统计信息中修改行数不为 0 时，对于未命中 TopN 的等值条件，估算结果从 0 调整为 1 [#47400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47400) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 在 MPP 负载均衡时移除不包含任何 Region 的 Store [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 优化表达式默认值在 `SHOW CREATE TABLE` 结果中的 MySQL 兼容性 [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 通过批量删除 TiFlash placement rule 的方式，提升对分区表执行 `TRUNCATE`、`DROP` 后数据 GC 的处理速度 [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 改进 sync load 的性能，减少加载统计信息的延时 [#52994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52294) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

+ TiKV

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    - 当一个 TiKV 实例中有大量 Region 时，可减少大量内存使用量 [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - 修复基于任务 ID `RECOVER TABLE` 可能导致的 panic 问题 [[#55113](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55113)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55113) @[[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - 修复分布式执行框架下 `ADD INDEX` 可能在 PD 修改成员后失败 [[#55937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55937)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55937) @[[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复可能同时存在两个 ddl owner 的问题 [[#54689](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54689)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54689) @[[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)](https://github.com/joccau)
    - 修复 `ADD INDEX` 过程中 TiDB 重启导致的添加索引失败问题 [[#52805](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52805)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52805) @[[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复 `LOAD DATA ... REPLACE INTO` 导致的数据不一致问题 [[#56408](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56408)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56408) @[[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)](https://github.com/fzzf678)

>     - 修复 `IMPORT INTO` 后 AUTO_INCREMENT 字段没有正确设置的问题 [[#56476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56476)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56476) @[[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 7 notes-->
>     - 增加在从检查点恢复前的本地文件存在性校验 [[#53009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53009)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53009) @[[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复 DM schema tracker 无法创建超过默认长度索引的错误 [[#55138](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55138)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55138) @[[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复 `ALTER TABLE` 没有正确处理 AUTO_INCREMENT 字段的问题 [[#47899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47899)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47899) @[[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>     - 修复未释放的 session 资源可能导致的内存泄漏问题 [[#56271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56271)](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56271) @[[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复浮点数/整数溢出，导致影响 plan cache 问题 [#46538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46538) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复 `IndexLookUp` 算子部分内存不被追踪的问题 [#56440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56440) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复 stale read 中未对读操作的 ts 进行严格的校验，导致 TSO 和真实物理时间存在偏移时有小概率影响事务一致性的问题 [#56809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56809) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复通过 `IMPORT INTO` 导入数据后，`AUTO_INCREMENT` 字段没有正确设置的问题 [#56476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56476) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 15 notes-->
    - 修复从检查点恢复之前，没有检查是否存在本地文件的问题 [#53009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53009) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复 DM schema tracker 无法创建超过默认长度索引的错误 [#55138](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55138) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复 `ALTER TABLE` 没有正确处理 `AUTO_INCREMENT` 字段的问题 [#47899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47899) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - 修复未释放的会话资源可能导致的内存泄漏问题 [#56271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56271) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复浮点数或整数溢出影响计划缓存的问题 [#46538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46538) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复 `IndexLookUp` 算子部分内存未被追踪的问题 [#56440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56440) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复 stale read 中未对读操作的 ts 进行严格校验，导致 TSO 和真实物理时间存在偏移时，有小概率影响事务一致性的问题 [#56809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56809) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
```

> + TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

Author: ```suggestion
+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    - 添加 RawKvMaxTimestampNotSynced 错误，并将信息设置为 errorpb.Error.max_ts_not_synced 以提供更多信息。针对 must_raw_put 的 max_ts_not_synced 错误重试 [#16789](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16789) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
    - 修复 drop 大型表或分区后可能出现的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - 解决读线程在从 raft-engine 中的 “Memtable” 读取陈旧索引时遇到 panic 的问题 [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 修正 CDC 和日志备份没有使用 advance-ts-interval 来限制 check_leader 超时的问题[#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复备份过程中由于 TiKV 没有响应导致备份任务无法结束的问题 [#53480](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53480) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复备份恢复的断点路径在一些外部存储中不兼容的问题 [#55265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55265) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在 BR 恢复数据或 TiDB Lightning 物理导入模式下导入数据时，从 PD 获取到的 Region 没有 Leader 的问题 [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 PD leader 发生迁移可能导致恢复数据时 panic 的问题 [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在暂停、停止、再重建任务操作后，虽然任务状态显示正常，但 Checkpoint 不推进的问题 [#53047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53047) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

>         - 修复日志备份因为不能及时解决锁卡住 Checkpoint 推进的问题 [#57134]([https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134] @[3pointer]([https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 修复日志备份不能及时解决残留锁导致 Checkpoint 无法推进的问题 [#57134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57134) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

> ---

Author: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-5ts3rblv9-hfxsds-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-7.1.6

    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Improvements> TiDB - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Improvements> TiDB - Improve the MySQL compatibility of expression default values displayed in the output of `SHOW CREATE TABLE` [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Improvements> TiDB - By batch deleting TiFlash placement rules, improve the processing speed of data GC after performing the `TRUNCATE` or `DROP` operation on partitioned tables [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > Improvements> TiDB - Improve sync load performance to reduce latency in loading statistics [#52994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52294) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

> + TiKV

Author: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

```

        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 支持通过环境变量设置阿里云访问身份 [#45551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45551) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Reduce unnecessary log printing during backup [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持当下游为消息队列 (Message Queue, MQ) 或存储服务时直接输出原始事件 [#11211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11211) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 提升使用 redo log 恢复数据过程中的内存稳定性，减少 OOM 的概率 [#10900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10900) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 当下游为 TiDB 且授予 `SUPER` 权限时，TiCDC 支持从下游数据库查询 `ADD INDEX DDL` 的执行状态，以避免某些情况下因重试执行 DDL 语句超时而导致数据同步失败 [#10682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10682) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw@lilin90: 1 note-->

>         - Upgrade `go-mysql` to support connecting to MySQL server 8.0 using passwords longer than 19 characters [#11603](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/11603) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Upgrade `go-mysql` to 1.9.1 to support connecting to MySQL server 8.0 using passwords longer than 19 characters [#11603](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/11603) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 DML 语句中包含嵌套的生成列时报错的问题 [#53967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53967) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复执行谓词总是为 `true` 的 `SHOW ERRORS` 语句导致 TiDB panic 的问题 [#46962](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46962) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在某些情况下，元数据锁使用不当可能导致使用 plan cache 时写入异常数据的问题 [#53634](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53634) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复添加索引时重试导致数据索引不一致的问题 [#55808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55808) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `UPDATE` 语句可能因为列的唯一 ID 不稳定导致查询报错的问题 [#53236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53236) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在事务内的语句被 OOM 终止之后，如果在当前事务内继续执行下一条语句，可能报错 `Trying to start aggressive locking while it's already started` 并发生 panic 的问题 [#53540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53540) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

>     - Fix the issue that executing `RECOVER TABLE` by the job ID might cause panic [#55113](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55113) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that executing `RECOVER TABLE BY JOB` might cause panic [#55113](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55113) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `LOAD DATA ... REPLACE INTO` operation causes data inconsistency [#56408](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56408) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - Fix the issue that the `AUTO_INCREMENT` field is not correctly set after importing data using the `IMPORT INTO` statement [#56476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56476) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 15 notes-->
    - Fix the issue that TiDB does not check for the existence of local files before restoring from a checkpoint [#53009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53009) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that the DM schema tracker cannot create indexes longer than the default length [#55138](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55138) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE` does not handle `AUTO_INCREMENT` field correctly [#47899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47899) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - Fix the issue that unfreed session resources might lead to memory leaks [#56271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56271) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that unreleased session resources might lead to memory leaks [#56271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56271) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - Fix the issue that float or integer overflow affects the plan cache [#46538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46538) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that part of the memory of the `IndexLookUp` operator is not tracked [#56440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56440) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - Fix the issue that stale read does not strictly check the ts of the read operation, resulting in a small probability of affecting the consistency of the transaction when there is an offset between the TSO and the real physical time [#56809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56809) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that stale read does not strictly verify the timestamp of the read operation, resulting in a small probability of affecting the consistency of the transaction when an offset exists between the TSO and the real physical time [#56809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56809) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
```

    - Fix the issue that TTL might fail if TiKV is not selected as the storage engine [#56402](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56402) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that TTL tasks might not be canceled when there is a write conflict [#56422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56422) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TTL tasks might not be canceled when there is a write conflict [#56422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56422) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TTL tasks might cannot be canceled when there is a write conflict [#56422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56422) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that inserting oversized numbers in scientific notation causes an error `ERROR 1264 (22003)`, to make the behavior consistent with MySQL [#47787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47787) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Fix the issue that when canceling a TTL task, the corresponding SQL is not forced to be killed [#56511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56511) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when canceling a TTL task, the corresponding SQL is not killed forcibly [#56511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56511) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `INSERT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY` statement is not compatible with `mysql_insert_id` [#55965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55965) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `INSERT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY` statement is not compatible with `mysql_insert_id` [#55965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55965) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Fix the issue that audit log filtering does not take effect when SQL cannot build an execution plan [#50988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50988) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that existing TTL tasks are executed unexpectedly frequently in a cluster that is upgraded from v6.5 to v7.5 or later [#56539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56539) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the `CAST` function does not support explicitly setting the character set [#55677](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55677) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the index length limitation is not checked when executing `ADD INDEX` [#56930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56930) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复删除大表或分区后可能导致的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when read threads access outdated indexes in the MemTable of the Raft Engine [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 `advance-ts-interval` 配置未被用于限制 CDC 和 log-backup 模块中 `check_leader` 操作的 timeout，导致在某些情况下 TiKV 正常重启时 `resolved_ts` lag 过大的问题 [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the issue that SST files imported by TiDB Lightning are lost after TiKV is restarted [#15912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15912) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 ingest 已被删除的 sst_importer SST 文件导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#15053](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>     - Fix the issue that when there are a large number of Regions in a TiKV instance, TiKV might OOM during data import [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when there are a large number of Regions in a TiKV instance, TiKV might be OOM during data import [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复过期副本处理 Raft 快照时，由于分裂操作过慢并且随后立即删除新副本，可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#17469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17469) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复高并发的 Coprocessor 请求可能导致 TiKV OOM 的问题 [#16653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16653) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复当主密钥存储于 KMS (Key Management Service) 时无法轮换主密钥的问题 [#17410](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17410) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 tikv-ctl 的 `raft region` 命令的输出中未包含 Region 状态信息的问题 [#17037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17037) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 Grafana 上 TiKV 面板的 **Storage async write duration** 监控指标不准确的问题 [#17579](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17579) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复巴西和埃及时区转换错误的问题 [#16220](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16220) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ PD <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 6 notes-->

>     - Fix the memory leak issue in label statistics [#8700](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8700) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - Fix the issue that resource group prints excessive logs [#8159](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8159) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - Fix the performance jitter issue caused by frequent random number generator creation [#8674](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8674) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - Fix the memory leak issue in Region statistics [#8710](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8710) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - Fix the memory leak issue in hotspot cache [#8698](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8698) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - Fix the issue that the evict leader scheduler fails to work properly repeated creation with the same Store ID [#8756](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8756) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the memory leak issue in label statistics [#8700](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8700) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that resource groups print excessive logs [#8159](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8159) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the performance jitter issue caused by frequent creation of random number generator [#8674](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8674) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the memory leak issue in Region statistics [#8710](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8710) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the memory leak issue in hotspot cache [#8698](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8698) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` fails to work properly when it is repeatedly created with the same Store ID [#8756](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8756) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
```

> + TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->
```

>     - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix a traffic control issue that might occur after deleting large tables or partitions [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix a traffic control issue that might occur after deleting large tables or partitions [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

>     - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that CDC and log-backup do not limit the timeout of `check_leader` using the `advance-ts-interval` configuration, causing the `resolved_ts` lag to be too large when TiKV restarts normally in some cases [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that CDC and log-backup do not limit the timeout of `check_leader` using the `advance-ts-interval` configuration, causing the `resolved_ts` lag to be too large when TiKV restarts normally in some cases [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 TiFlash 在高并发读的情况下，可能返回瞬时不正确结果的问题 [#8845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8845) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复函数 `SUBSTRING_INDEX()` 可能导致 TiFlash Crash 的问题 [#9116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9116) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复当集群中长时间频繁执行 `EXCHANGE PARTITION` 和 `DROP TABLE` 操作时，可能导致 TiFlash 表元信息同步缓慢以及查询性能下降的问题 [#9227](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9227) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 key range 为空的查询导致 TiFlash 上没有正确生成读取任务，从而可能阻塞 TiFlash 查询的问题 [#9108](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9108) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Fix the issue that the sign in the result of the `CAST AS DECIMAL` function is incorrect in certain cases [#9301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING` function does not support the `POS` and `LENGTH` arguments for certain integer types, causing query errors [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING()` function does not support the `pos` and `len` arguments for certain integer types, causing query errors [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

    - Fix the issue that audit log filtering does not take effect when SQL cannot build an execution plan [#50988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50988) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that existing TTL tasks are executed unexpectedly frequently in a cluster that is upgraded from v6.5 to v7.5 or later [#56539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56539) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the `CAST` function does not support explicitly setting the character set [#55677](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55677) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->

    - 新增 RawKvMaxTimestampNotSynced 报错，并在发生该错误时在 `errorpb.Error.max_ts_not_synced` 中记录详细的错误信息。针对 `must_raw_put` 操作，在遇到该错误时增加了重试机制 [#16789](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16789) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复删除大表或分区后可能导致的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

>     - 修复读线程在从 Raft Engine 中的 MemTable 读取过时索引时出现的 panic 问题 [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when read threads access outdated indexes in the MemTable of the Raft Engine [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 `advance-ts-interval` 配置未被用于限制 CDC 和 log-backup 模块中 `check_leader` 操作的 timeout，导致在某些情况下 TiKV 正常重启时 `resolved_ts` lag 过大的问题 [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

>     - 修复重启 TiKV 后由 TiDB Lightning 导入的 SST 文件丢失的问题 [#15912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15912) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that SST files imported by TiDB Lightning are lost after TiKV is restarted [#15912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15912) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 ingest 已被删除的 sst_importer SST 文件导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#15053](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>     - 修复当 TiKV 实例中有大量 Region 时，数据导入过程中可能出现 OOM 的问题

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when there are a large number of Regions in a TiKV instance, TiKV might OOM during data import [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.1.6 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.1.6.
---

# TiDB 7.1.6 Release Notes

Release date: November 21, 2024

TiDB version: 7.1.6

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

> - Set a default limit of 2048 for DDL historical tasks retrieved through the [TiDB HTTP API](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/release-7.5/docs/tidb_http_api.md) to prevent OOM issues caused by excessive historical tasks [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set a default limit of 2048 for DDL historical tasks retrieved through the [TiDB HTTP API](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/release-7.1/docs/tidb_http_api.md) to prevent OOM issues caused by excessive historical tasks [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

> - In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v6.5.10, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTS` (which is the current timestamp fetched from PD when TiCDC starts replicating the corresponding table to the downstream). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-split-update-behavior#split-update-events-for-mysql-sinks). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v7.1.6, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTS` (which is the current timestamp fetched from PD when TiCDC starts replicating the corresponding table to the downstream). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1/ticdc-split-update-behavior#split-update-events-for-mysql-sinks). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

    - Fix the issue that when canceling a TTL task, the corresponding SQL is not forced to be killed [#56511](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56511) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that `INSERT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY` statement is not compatible with `mysql_insert_id` [#55965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55965) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that audit log filtering does not take effect when SQL cannot build an execution plan [#50988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50988) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that existing TTL tasks are executed unexpectedly frequently in a cluster that is upgraded from v6.5 to v7.5 or later [#56539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56539) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the `CAST` function does not support explicitly setting the character set [#55677](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55677) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->

>     - 添加 RawKvMaxTimestampNotSynced 错误，并将信息设置为 errorpb.Error.max_ts_not_synced 以提供更多信息。针对 must_raw_put 的 max_ts_not_synced 错误重试 [#16789](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16789) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
>     - 修复 drop 大型表或分区后可能出现的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
>     - 解决读线程在从 raft-engine 中的 “Memtable” 读取陈旧索引时遇到 panic 的问题 [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
>     - 修正 CDC 和日志备份没有使用 advance-ts-interval 来限制 check_leader 超时的问题[#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
>     - 修复 TiKV 重启后 TiDB Lightning 导入的 SST 文件丢失问题 [#15912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15912) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复取消 `IMPORT INTO` 任务可能导致的 TiKV 崩溃问题 [#15053](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - 新增 RawKvMaxTimestampNotSynced 报错，并在发生该错误时在 `errorpb.Error.max_ts_not_synced` 中记录详细的错误信息。针对 `must_raw_put` 操作，在遇到该错误时增加了重试机制 [#16789](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16789) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复删除大表或分区后可能导致的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - 修复读线程在从 Raft Engine 中的 MemTable 读取过时索引时出现的 panic 问题 [#17383](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17383) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 `advance-ts-interval` 配置未被用于限制 CDC 和 log-backup 模块中 `check_leader` 操作的 timeout，导致在某些情况下 TiKV 正常重启时 `resolved_ts` lag 过大的问题 [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - 修复重启 TiKV 后由 TiDB Lightning 导入的 SST 文件丢失的问题 [#15912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15912) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 ingest 已被删除的 sst_importer SST 文件导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#15053](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15053) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复当 TiKV 实例中有大量 Region 时，数据导入过程中可能出现 OOM 的问题
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复使用 `CAST()` 函数将字符串转换为带时区或非法字符的日期时间时，结果错误的问题 [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 TiFlash 在高并发读的情况下，可能返回瞬时不正确结果的问题 [#8845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8845) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复函数 `SUBSTRING_INDEX()` 可能导致 TiFlash Crash 的问题 [#9116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9116) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复当集群中长时间频繁执行 `EXCHANGE PARTITION` 和 `DROP TABLE` 操作时，可能导致 TiFlash 表元信息同步缓慢以及查询性能下降的问题 [#9227](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9227) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 key range 为空的查询导致 TiFlash 上没有正确生成读取任务，从而可能阻塞 TiFlash 查询的问题 [#9108](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9108) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     - 修复特定情况下使用 `CAST AS DECIMAL` 函数，结果正负号错误的问题 [#9301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - 修复 `SUBSTRING` 函数 不支持部分整数类型的 `POS`，`LENGTH` 参数问题 [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
>     - 修复对存在大量数据的表执行 `DROP TABLE` 之后，可能导致 TiFlash OOM 的问题 [#9437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9437) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - 修复在特定情况下 `CAST AS DECIMAL` 函数的返回结果存在正负号错误的问题 [#9301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复 `SUBSTRING` 函数不支持部分整数类型的 `POS` 和 `LENGTH` 参数导致查询报错的问题 [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 修复对大表执行 `DROP TABLE` 可能导致 TiFlash OOM 的问题 [#9437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9437) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复 DM 在处理 `ALTER DATABASE` 语句时未设置默认数据库导致同步报错的问题 [#11503](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11503) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复多个 DM-master 节点可能同时成为 Leader 导致数据不一致的问题 [#11602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11602) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 升级 `go-mysql` 以修复连接阻塞的问题 [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复当索引长度超过 `max-index-length` 默认值时数据同步中断的问题 [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复 DM 在同步针对 LIST 分区表的 `ALTER TABLE ... DROP PARTITION` 语句时报错的问题 [#54760](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54760) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

>         - 修改对于写入 RPC 请求错误的处理逻辑 [#47694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47694) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - 优化 TiDB Lightning 消息接收大小限制，解决因 TiKV 发送的消息过大而接收失败 [#56114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56114) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - 修复 TiDB Lightning 因 TiKV 发送的消息过大而接收失败的问题 [#56114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56114) @[fishiu](https://github.com/fishiu)
```
